{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green146\blue189;\red8\green78\blue230;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 Notes:
\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Company make a small profit on hardware, but the majority of revenue is derived from selling data.
\b0 \cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}All hardware is kept open-source
\b0 \cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Devices can be bought on 24 month contracts or 'bolted on' to existing cellphone contracts.
\b0 \cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Devices will be assigned an device key in production ( displayed on a sticker). Users can add devices to their front panel by attaching device keys to their account.
\b0 \cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Devices don't require any configuration or setup. Just plug and play. (device starts transmitting when it gets power)
\b0 \cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Data can be accessed from mobile apps (Android, BB, iOS, MS) and from the regular web site.
\b0 \cf0 \
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Transmitted data: Voltage, power, peripheral sensor values, internal temperature sensor reading
\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\
Concern and risk to be managed
\b0 \
What bothers me is the following:\uc0\u8232 - Please describe the management and implementation team responsible for delivery of the project (attachment)\u8232 - Please provide a description and implementation plan of your proposed solution, including an outline of the business model (attachment of 5-10 pages).\
-\'a0
\b \cf2 How does this project help service delivery exactly?
\b0 \cf0 \
\

\b Service delivery challenge
\b0 \
The knowledge of load shedding fill most South Africans with anger and fear. Since we have become so used to living in civilization. The purpose of this product is to bridge the information gap, so that the consumer can know if they are currently affected by load shedding at home, while still at the office. People like to be informed.\
The secondary goal of this product is to give local government information on which areas has been effected and to hold stats for future reference. This will empower local government to a larger extend to be fair to all the consumers and provide statistics for reference.\
And since the device is not limited by electricity due to a onboard batery, data can be send to a central website for consumer notification, but also for statistical use of local government.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 (Please describe the specific service delivery challenge that your innovation will target (250 words). )
\i0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Concept summary
\b0 \
Provide information from home. As a GSM device utilizing the Vodacom network as backbone the core infrastructure this device can provide information to the consumer anytime anyplace via its mobile web information and the information is available at the push of a button.\
\
The possible uses for this device are endless:\
It measure the availability of electrical power.\
It can measure current power consumption of a household\
Measure power consumption of a specific electrical product. (a fridge that use to much electricity can have faulty insulation. Savings from fixing or replacing can save some electricity. And this device will be able to be switched on and off.\
Future uses with some adaptation.\
Measure power on Geysers, street lights or robots. Switch any electical devices on or off, browse the web, smoke detector, alarm hookup. Video feed at work from home.\
The devices are in principal open source. These devices can be used by third parties with some Adrino Knowledge and electronic skills the possibilities are endless. And it will create a niche industry for the international market.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Please summarise your concept, highlighting how it is innovative (500 words).
\i0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Impact on local government service delivery
\b0 \
This device will not prevent load shedding. But it will inform the consumer if they are affected. Relieving a bit of stress and consumers empowering them with a bit of information. The perception is that local government only care about certain area\'92s in the community. People only notice what is wrong and not successes. The bigger visible scope will give customers more objectively and empathy for the scope of issues at hand.\
This will empower local government so they can make decisions with more information and the stats to support it.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Please describe how your innovation will enhance local government service delivery (e.g. address aspects of effectiveness, efficiency, user perceptions, etc.) (500 words)
\i0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Implementation Milestones
\b0 \
Agreements with Vodacom and Microtec.\
Marketing assesment- Pre order on website.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 O-level prototype (pre-production \'a0test version built up)\cf0 \
Production start.\
Marketing start.\
Sales start.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 An important criterion for evaluation is the added progress or impact of your project that will result from the funding received. Please describe which progress milestones you will aim to reach in the funded period. Note that these milestones will also be used to track progress and evaluate payment requests, and that implementation of your plan should not take longer than 6 months. (500 words)
\i0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Description and implementation plan
\b0 \
Agreements with Vodacom and Microtronix should be formalised.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 Technical Details
\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 The OPW monitor is based on existing, locally produced open-source hardware modules. These include:\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Power monitor module (Bushveld Labs, South Africa)\cf0 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}GSM communication module (Bushveld Labs, South Africa)\cf0 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Battery backup module\cf0 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Arduino (Arduino, Italy)\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 Features
\b0 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Power monitor\cf0 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Temperature sensor\cf0 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Expansion slots for expansion devices (Relay controls, light sensors, motion detection, )\cf0 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Battery backup\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 Connectivity
\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 The GSM module includes an onboard chip-SIM. SIM is preallocated in production with Vodacom.\'a0\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \

\b \cf2 Product manufacturing
\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Arduino controllers are supplied by Netram.\cf0 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}GSM communication and power monitor modules are supplied by Bushveld Labs\cf0 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Packaging can be designed by ThinkTank Creative ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.thinktank.co.za/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.thinktank.co.za/}})\cf0 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Package labelling can be printed by PrintKing ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.printking.co.za/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.printking.co.za/}})\cf0 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}We will need an enclosure designed and tooling made. (need supplier)\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 Distribution
\b0 \cf0 \

\b \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf2 Devices will be available for sale through:\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Vodacom stores\cf0 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Bushveld Labs online store\cf0 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Netram online store\cf0 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}Other online stores ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Kalahari.net/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Kalahari.net}}?)\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 SIM management service
\b0 \cf0 \

\b \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf2 The GSM communication modules include a chip SIM that is preallocated on Vodacom's network. A fixed monthly cost is charged for the connection and includes a small bundle of data.\cf0 \
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Please provide a description and implementation plan of your proposed solution, including an outline of the business model (attachment of 5-10 pages).
\i0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Implementation team
\b0 \
All the team members are members of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.house4hack.co.za/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 www.house4hack.co.za}}. This club\'92s goal is to create small sustainable businesses and collaboration of technical and business skills.\
\
Extract of the \'93Hacker Space\'94 Manifesto\
WE build unique devices to interact with our environment. We write code to do new and interesting things. We learn about systems, and we help make them better, We educate those willing to learn. We view the human pursuit of knowledge as inherently good.\
\
The different roles of the members in the prospective business.\
SPECIALISTS\
Jarryd - \'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:jarryd@bushveldlabs.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 jarryd@bushveldlabs.com}}\
Daniel\
Schalk\
\
who else?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf2 \

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://groups.google.com/groups/profile?enc_user=grDrNBEAAAAisjR34xJBVk-cxjZ_XZt6kdEasx1kiYTQavV7mdW13Q"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Mikkel S\'f8gaard Christiansen }}
\b mikk{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://groups.google.com/groups/unlock?_done=/groups/profile%3Fenc_user%3DgrDrNBEAAAAisjR34xJBVk-cxjZ_XZt6kdEasx1kiYTQavV7mdW13Q"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 ...}}@{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://gmail.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 gmail.com}}
\b0 \
}